How do you deal with that? That's part of the
question. Well, you don't want to be, you're not
for sale. If you ever lose sight of that, you're
dead. But we're not for sale. We're for rent, but
we're not for sale. But we'll decide whether or not
we'll rent out or we'll retire. learn to do
something and you're going to have a talent and as
long as you don't object on your own set of
principles whatever they are and they differ
around the world
then you're willing if you're willing to do it then
you can decide the terms of the contract that you
will do
We are not, however, in the position of being for
sale. We just won't go out and do anything as long as
you pay us. And how do you afford that? Is that 20%?
That's
right.
If one administration comes in and we've got some
turkey who's got the wrong philosophy, and it's
wrong, why? Because it doesn't agree with me.
That's my responsibility, and I've got to be
prepared to take that risk of defending what I
believe is right. That is, not only, you know, so
one of our whole divisions finds its resources may
be wiped out.
And I'm looking. The contract is terminated. The
resources are not coming in. Is that a statement
that that's the end of the deed for that research?
No. Now we're back to one of your other questions.
Maybe. Maybe not. Got analogies.
Who are the other clients? whose lives in our
society, and I'm personifying here again, take
lives as meaning not only individuals, but
industries, institutions, foundations, those
people that we interact with and what we do has an
impact on them. I've got to go to those people, my
job, and not just take the President of the United
States work for it, just because he thinks that
defense is great. And
get everybody I've got in this organization
working on defense and completely abandon human
baggage. I may not be willing to do that. I might do
that, but I might not. But how am I going to decide
that? I'm going to go talk to all sources of
information first of all, that I have access to,
that I can get to, whose opinion I respect, and
whose lives are influenced by that particular
area that has a problem. And I've got to decide,
based upon that input, and I've drawn the
resources of my colleagues in this system, in the
UT system, in the California system, the
industries, the entities, those lives that that
particular area otherwise would have been
impacted.
But equally as importantly, maybe more
importantly, I sit down with those people and ask
them, what
happened? And why? And what does the future hold?
And if we ride through this downtick together, how
do we come out of it? And who cares? And if so, so
what?
Then I'll make a decision.
But if I didn't have that 20%,
we could go through all of that and decide they
ought to survive. And if the productivity wasn't
there to fund it, You just cry and say, I'm sorry,
I'd like to back you, but I can't. And no, you die. Or
you'd have to be for sale, and then you'd have to
make that choice. I'd probably die. It's my thing,
too. Go back to TI. Well, I was on a higher
philosophical plane at that time with that
comment. I might go to the mountains and get my fly
rod out and fish. There are other alternatives.
But
TEAS has that responsibility. It's been given
that responsibility. It's been given that trust,
and it's been given that authority.
So is it that 20% of the lives you have the
flexibility to take those first risks and ride out
the storm? That's right. It's the key.
and see if you spent all that 20% fully funding all
these programs. You'd be dead. You'd sold
yourself. You'd sold your option, your
flexibility. Everybody has got to carry it. You
see, this agency works much differently than the
factories across the way and the agri-trail
stations. They're on the inverse. They're 80%.
Just now moving to something like 20% of outside
generated research, the money they get from the
legislature, the Texas legislature, is more
like 80% of their budget. I have a question that
I've asked everyone I've interviewed. Oh good,
this is the loaded question. Well, this is a more
general question in a sense, but I keep hearing the
term high-tech, and I don't understand the
difference between high-tech and tech
technologies. I don't either. And frankly, I
don't think anybody does. It's a buzzword like
basic and applied research. I hold the philosophy
that nobody's smart enough to define that either.
I think that we can conceptualize the difference
between research and development. I think I can
define for you where research stops and
development continues. I cannot define for you
where basic research stops and applied research
continues. Or how you can say when you go into a
research project, which one it is. Or when you come
out of it. I can get to kind of glib about it. Glib's
the
wrong word. I can't think of the right one I'd want
to use. That's close enough. It's in the ballpark.
almost tongue-in-cheek, maybe sarcastic even. I
like von Braun's definition of basic research.
It's the research I'm doing when I don't know what
I'm doing. Another definition that I think fits
rather well in that same category is Basic
research is done under a grant and applied
research is done under a contract. Or one that goes
a little bit further in the same mode is if
anybody's willing to pay for it, it's applied.
Basic research is the research that's not funded.
Another one. At 20%. At any time, see? Then what do
you say how much? So you've got to take it to the
extreme. As soon as somebody's willing to pay you
to do that research, it's applied. Because you
know they've got a profit motive. You know there's
sinister reasons. You know you're for sale and you
sold your purity, academic soul, to get this thing
done. I think it's unmitigated.
philosophical mishmash to try to even define it. I
think we damage ourselves greatly in the academic
community in attempting.
But
some people have the concept that basic research
is the research that scientists do, and applied
research is the research that engineers do. Well,
I have the disadvantage, probably, of having been
educated as a scientist. Why is that a
disadvantage? And mutated into an engineer. So
I've done research. I've taught in math and
physics. I've done research.
So what's the difference
between
a scientist
and an engineer? There is a difference. I became an
engineer because I was interested in the
applications
of the fundamental laws of nature.
But when I became an engineer, I did not give up
being
a scientist. And when I was a scientist, and
functioning as a scientist, I think I have the
capability of putting on either hat effectively.
I've got enough confidence in myself to say that. I
believe I can walk into the classroom and share
with my fellow mankind some knowledge about how
Mother Nature drives this planet. And I can do that
reasonably effectively in what we call the
discipline of physics, the laws of physical
science. I think I can walk into an electronics
engineering class and share the principles
of applying those laws to make an integrated
circuit function in a computer to do
calculations. Those two relate that way. But when
I have all my business had and I'm in the
laboratory, looking for
the maybe Porter's Law. I used to search for that a
lot when I was a sophomore. Or at least I would
search for it. I just thought it would happen. But
if I'm looking for the absorption coefficient of
sound in liquid nitrogen,
and to see how it might vary as a function of
temperature or pressure or something, And that's
really all I'm interested in. I wonder how Mother
Nature controls that. How does the sound move
through the production? How does it change and
how does it soar? I learned early on that if I pay
attention and think freely, that I might discover
an acoustic device for detecting an arrhythmia in
your heart, which I would call, I believe we can
create an industry and sell a product. And as soon
as I have that piece of data that has application,
what's I doing?
What I say is, I was a scientist doing research. And
the results turn out to be to have an application.
The fallacy now injects a piece of personal
philosophy in the larger scheme of higher
education. The thing I don't like, the thing I'm
worried about personally in our nation, is that to
try to create a self-image
We want to demand to know what the result is going to
be rather than taking the risk to be a free thinker
and just use your intellect and take advantage of
where the research. Most people don't even
understand that word. You can't research until
you've searched. What are you doing? You're
searching. And if you think you've found
something, Before you publish it, before you go
share it, you better re-search it to be sure it's
reproducible. Otherwise, you're going to find
yourself rather embarrassed. And we see our
colleagues from time to time around this country
announcing great breakthroughs because they
observed it one time and they only searched it.
They didn't research it.
I find an attitude among some academicians that if
anything has value or makes money, or has
application into our society, the free
enterprise, profit-driven, capitalistic,
wonderful America, that they violated their role
as an academician, if they shouldn't be involved.
Well, that's part of the unmeditated stuff I think
is unnecessary and not healthy to the strength of
the country and the society that we're in.
Many times, though, when I had my engineering
handle, What I was trying to develop
based upon research that had already been done.
Now it was in the department, which I can define
differently. I was trying to build a machine
that would take advantage of those principles
that were based upon good research. But I was
trying to develop a machine that would build in a
great circuit. And
while I was doing that development, I got a
glimmer. Where am I engineering at? Doing
development to make money for Texas Instruments
by building integrated circuits. Matter of fact,
we were building the first computer to go on board
the F-111 so our pilots could fly in and mock
whatever about 100 feet off the ground and about
run into a building. It
occurred, I made some measurements that led me to
believe that I could now design and set up
experiments in a research model. Moving back now
into, I don't know what the entry is, I can't go into
the development of it, I'm not sure that that's
going to be true.
that led me to define my PhD dissertation.
To come back and answer very fundamental
questions about Mother Nature's principles that
would help us to understand how deeply it is
produced. And we knew that it was produced, but we
didn't know why or how. We
didn't
understand the laws. And that's what I ended up
doing. But I was wearing an engineering hat, too.
So that's kind of the end of my soapbox. I have an
example or two of why I think it's found that way.
You have the problem of, it's encountered in
research and all this big time. I'm sure you've had
it for a long time, just in the short term.
Well,
that's just a reality. You just do what is the best
you can. Sure, absolutely.
If you
end up deciding to go on a project where the sponsor
has got
the short-term deal and you end up getting caught,
you have put in jeopardy, potentially in
jeopardy, the team of researchers to be cut off in
the middle of what otherwise independent of the
sponsor. That's why I feel like the agency itself
has to believe in the research that's being done,
not because the sponsor wanted to pay for it, but
because they believe it was good research to do. So
in case the sponsor decides
that they're no longer going to sponsor you. At
least you just don't yank the rug out and say, well,
I signed that deal, and you slam the door. Now, as I
said earlier, this business of research is so
dynamic and changes so rapidly that you may be off
on fission research, and all of a sudden, somebody
makes a breakthrough infusion that says, you
know, We just got through, you know, we're right in
the middle of that in high energy physics right
now. It's one of the reasons the argument's being
made for the super-electro-super-client. And
the Brookhaven project, after hundreds of
millions of dollars, it's been shut down.
Technology's changed.
Somebody else mentioned that. Well, or somebody,
you know, you skin the cat a different way.
But you see, that's the risk. If you want to try to
accomplish something, do you do parallel
projects? Sure you do. Should we ordain only one
university research lab to work on
microelectronics? Heck no. But yet, if you do too
much of that, you spread your resources so thin.
But if everybody was doing fission, nobody would
have done fission. Yeah, that's right. You made my
point better than I did. But are there any other
points that you would like
to make in terms of your views of T's history,
things that you've noticed that I haven't brought
up? No, I think you brought them out well with your
questions. I don't think they've done very good
job.
I would
say this about
the agency.
as an entity in the state and in the A&M
system. In this particular window
of time, Texas and America, I think TEAS has the
opportunity to play a role that's at least
as
meaningful as any other part of the system to the
future for the next 20 to 50 years, I would say. I
like, personally, this interdisciplinary
blending of comics from otherwise very diverse
disciplines. doesn't scare me, doesn't bother
me, I think it stimulates me to create in the
process. If you take a look at the sources of
invention, what you find is that 99% of the time,
most of the time, the idea for a new product came
from somebody who had absolutely no obligation.
So,
let's not lose that, particularly
in the university
environment, the academic environment, the
research environment, where bright minds, young
and old, come together, interact. The more we
cross our lines and interact with one another, the
better off we are. Personal philosophy.
Let's not be so rigid in defining the constraint.
It goes, I think, in a self-analysis, I think
that's consistent or maybe driven by or part of my
argument that I don't believe I'm smart enough to
define the difference between basic and applied
research. And I know I'm not smart enough to say I'm
going to go in and do a piece of basic research and
have it come out. Unless I force it. Unless I'm
dishonest with the recertified statistics. Or
the inverse. I may go in trying to build a specific
widget and discover a new law. I won't discover
that new law unless I'm willing to. If I just say I'm
going to go in and do this widget, then at the best I
can come out with is the widget. That's
right. And I've missed that opportunity.
Unnecessary. So, in my opinion, it's unnecessary
to constrain the thought process or the
administration definition.
From that point of view, there may be other reasons
why it has to be carefully scrutinized. Financial
reasons, funding reasons, support reasons.
If for those other reasons that I've just
mentioned, constraints are placed on this
agency's ability by administrators, by offices,
or by individuals whose philosophy differ with
mine, who are in the positions of authority and
responsibility, to make the structure such that
it inhibits it. You can't stop it. Stay consistent
with my earlier. You can make it
difficult. But if it is encouraged, this agency,
or what it represents, whether it stays in this
agency or not, but the interdisciplinary
approach, the melting, the interaction,
Engineers can learn an awful lot from business
people who can learn an awful lot from etc., etc.,
etc. And where there's common purpose and goal,
what's the way to do it? The state needs it. The
nation needs it. This window. The
window
that began in the last decade will probably close
in the next decade or two. So it's a 20 or 30 year
window that we're in. The window's closed.
But we came to it, to move through it, a decade or so
ago, although I don't think we even realized it.
We're running short of trained
minds. Not of minds with the ability, but of
trained minds, those who have already developed
the power to participate and play in this high
tech, whatever that means, game. That is a society
that's being driven by rapidly changing
sources of jobs, rapidly changing talents,
required to participate in making a living,
that's about the best way I can come at the
definition of the high tech is that the demands on
you to support the style of life that you want and do
the things that you want to do are changing for
you and you are being forced to learn how to use a
computer whether you want to or not and if you
choose not to
then we're coming back in this area to earlier in
our conversation. You may just have to take your
fly rod and go fishing. And you better be prepared
to exercise that option, or you may just die. So
society is being driven in this window of time. And
by those kinds of rapidly changing factors, And
it's clear to me that the discipline
of biology, natural sciences generally, is in an
incredible percentage. You're going to live to be
140, if you'd like to.
And the changes that's going to make in our lives.
But that is occurring in the same way. So all of
those technologies are going to come forth.
And that's part of And I think I'm beginning to push
you a little bit right now in the definition of high
tech. We might need to be going into very high
tech for some of what I'm talking about here. And
I'm not sure if the window I'm speaking of now will
have closed and we move into another one that will
begin identifiable cycles and civilization. But
what's driving that, Debbie, is
the world shrinking.
The marketplace.
We can walk out of here right now and be wherever you
want to be.
Why
do
you put about 10 years ago? I don't know. Gut
feeling. Is there another one that you closed?
Because you've been... The time period of the
post-World War II period was such a period of
growth that you closed it off. I don't know the
answer to that either.
I'm not a student of that. I haven't studied
society's evolution. I've been locked up. Well,
technologically. Yeah, well, I'm not a student of
technology, but I'm not a student of the history of
technology. I'm sorry about that, by the way,
because it's most useful. I find myself now most
intrigued by that and much more interested in it.
You know, when I was looking for Porter's Laws, who
cared whose else laws there were? But once you come
up to a little clearer reality about your own,
the...
the importance of how things happen
still it become more interesting to me though not
just as a matter out of curiosity but as a matter of
trying to learn from that to control not yeah not
just yeah and to control to the extent that we can
learn from what has happened in order to manage
Maybe it's a better word. But that's, in my mind, is
still...
Control is probably too strong, because I still
think even in managing anything, it comes back to
the research argument. You want to manage it to a
certain extent, but you don't want to try to manage
it so that you don't give the project or the
individuals in the project any kind of
flexibility of their own. I don't feel that smart,
and I don't like to be around those who think they
are, because I've already found it true. What we
need to do is to find generally where we think we can
go, work towards that objective, but be
reasonably flexible in meeting that objective so
that if we find an incentive that our preconceived
ideas going in were off somewhat, if not totally
wrong, then we've got the honesty to admit that and
make
a difference. And pay the price, whatever it is.
Take the risk. Don't worry about
it. Oh, I appreciate all your time. Well, you know,
all your questions are as good as I've had fun. I'm
enjoying it.